now let me sing to my well-beloved a
now let me sing to my well-beloved a song of my beloved regarding his
song of my beloved regarding his
song of my beloved regarding his vineyard my well-beloved has a vineyard
vineyard my well-beloved has a vineyard
vineyard my well-beloved has a vineyard on a very fruitful Hill he dug it up and
on a very fruitful Hill he dug it up and
on a very fruitful Hill he dug it up and cleared out its stones and planted it
cleared out its stones and planted it
cleared out its stones and planted it with the choicest vine he built a tower
with the choicest vine he built a tower
with the choicest vine he built a tower in its midst and also made a winepress
in its midst and also made a winepress
in its midst and also made a winepress in it so he expected it to bring forth
in it so he expected it to bring forth
in it so he expected it to bring forth good grapes but it brought forth wild
good grapes but it brought forth wild
good grapes but it brought forth wild grapes and now o inhabitants of
grapes and now o inhabitants of
grapes and now o inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah judge please
Jerusalem and men of Judah judge please
Jerusalem and men of Judah judge please between me and my vineyard what more
between me and my vineyard what more
between me and my vineyard what more could have been done to my vineyard that
could have been done to my vineyard that
could have been done to my vineyard that I have not done in it
I have not done in it
I have not done in it why then when I expected it to bring
why then when I expected it to bring
why then when I expected it to bring forth good grapes did it bring forth
forth good grapes did it bring forth
forth good grapes did it bring forth wild grapes and now please let me tell
wild grapes and now please let me tell
wild grapes and now please let me tell you what I will do to my vineyard I will
you what I will do to my vineyard I will
you what I will do to my vineyard I will take away its hitch and it shall be
take away its hitch and it shall be
take away its hitch and it shall be burnt and break down its wall and it
burnt and break down its wall and it
burnt and break down its wall and it shall be trampled down I will lay it
shall be trampled down I will lay it
shall be trampled down I will lay it waste it shall not be pruned or dug but
waste it shall not be pruned or dug but
waste it shall not be pruned or dug but there shall come up briars and forms
there shall come up briars and forms
there shall come up briars and forms I will also command the clouds that they
I will also command the clouds that they
I will also command the clouds that they Ren no rain on it for the vineyard of
Ren no rain on it for the vineyard of
Ren no rain on it for the vineyard of the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel
the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel
the Lord of Hosts is the house of Israel and the men of Judah are his pleasant
and the men of Judah are his pleasant
and the men of Judah are his pleasant plant he looked for justice but behold
plant he looked for justice but behold
plant he looked for justice but behold oppression for righteousness but behold
oppression for righteousness but behold
oppression for righteousness but behold a cry for help
a cry for help
a cry for help woe to those who join house to house
woe to those who join house to house
woe to those who join house to house they add field to field
they add field to field
they add field to field till there is no place where they may
till there is no place where they may
till there is no place where they may dwell alone in the midst of the land in
dwell alone in the midst of the land in
dwell alone in the midst of the land in my hearing the Lord of hosts said truly
my hearing the Lord of hosts said truly
my hearing the Lord of hosts said truly many houses shall be desolate great and
many houses shall be desolate great and
many houses shall be desolate great and beautiful ones without inhabitant for 10
beautiful ones without inhabitant for 10
beautiful ones without inhabitant for 10 acres of vineyard shall yield one bath
acres of vineyard shall yield one bath
acres of vineyard shall yield one bath and a homer of seed shall yield one eva
and a homer of seed shall yield one eva
and a homer of seed shall yield one eva woe to those who rise early in the
woe to those who rise early in the
woe to those who rise early in the morning that they may follow
morning that they may follow
morning that they may follow intoxicating drink who continue until
intoxicating drink who continue until
intoxicating drink who continue until night till wine inflame them the harp
night till wine inflame them the harp
night till wine inflame them the harp and the strings the tambourine and flute
and the strings the tambourine and flute
and the strings the tambourine and flute and wine are in their feasts but they do
and wine are in their feasts but they do
and wine are in their feasts but they do not regard the work of the Lord nor
not regard the work of the Lord nor
not regard the work of the Lord nor consider the operation of his hands
consider the operation of his hands
consider the operation of his hands therefore my people have gone into
therefore my people have gone into
therefore my people have gone into captivity because they have no knowledge
captivity because they have no knowledge
captivity because they have no knowledge their honorable men are famished and
their honorable men are famished and
their honorable men are famished and their multitude dried up with thirst
their multitude dried up with thirst
their multitude dried up with thirst therefore shield has enlarged itself and
therefore shield has enlarged itself and
therefore shield has enlarged itself and opened its mouth beyond measure their
opened its mouth beyond measure their
opened its mouth beyond measure their glory and their multitude and their pomp
glory and their multitude and their pomp
glory and their multitude and their pomp and he who is jubilant shall descend
and he who is jubilant shall descend
and he who is jubilant shall descend into it people shall be brought down
into it people shall be brought down
into it people shall be brought down each man shall be humbled and the eyes
each man shall be humbled and the eyes
each man shall be humbled and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled but the
of the lofty shall be humbled but the
of the lofty shall be humbled but the Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in
Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in
Lord of Hosts shall be exalted in judgment and God who is holy shall be
judgment and God who is holy shall be
judgment and God who is holy shall be hallowed in righteousness then the lambs
hallowed in righteousness then the lambs
hallowed in righteousness then the lambs shall feed in their pasture and in the
shall feed in their pasture and in the
shall feed in their pasture and in the waste places of the fat ones strangers
waste places of the fat ones strangers
waste places of the fat ones strangers shall eat woe to those who draw iniquity
shall eat woe to those who draw iniquity
shall eat woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of vanity and sin as if with
with cords of vanity and sin as if with
with cords of vanity and sin as if with a cart rope let's say let him make speed
a cart rope let's say let him make speed
a cart rope let's say let him make speed and hasten his work that we may see it
and hasten his work that we may see it
and hasten his work that we may see it and let the counsel of the Holy One of
and let the counsel of the Holy One of
and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near and come that we may
Israel draw near and come that we may
Israel draw near and come that we may know it woe to those who call evil good
know it woe to those who call evil good
know it woe to those who call evil good and good evil who put darkness for light
and good evil who put darkness for light
and good evil who put darkness for light and light for darkness who put bitter
and light for darkness who put bitter
and light for darkness who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter woe to
for sweet and sweet for bitter woe to
for sweet and sweet for bitter woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and
those who are wise in their own eyes and
those who are wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own sight
prudent in their own sight
prudent in their own sight woe to men mighty at drinking wine
woe to men mighty at drinking wine
woe to men mighty at drinking wine woe to men valiant for mixing
woe to men valiant for mixing
woe to men valiant for mixing intoxicating drink who justify the
intoxicating drink who justify the
intoxicating drink who justify the wicked for a bribe and take away justice
wicked for a bribe and take away justice
wicked for a bribe and take away justice from the righteous man therefore as the
from the righteous man therefore as the
from the righteous man therefore as the fire devours the stubble and the flame
fire devours the stubble and the flame
fire devours the stubble and the flame consumes the chaff so their root will be
consumes the chaff so their root will be
consumes the chaff so their root will be as rottenness and their blossom will
as rottenness and their blossom will
as rottenness and their blossom will ascend like dust because they have
ascend like dust because they have
ascend like dust because they have rejected the law of the Lord of Hosts
rejected the law of the Lord of Hosts
rejected the law of the Lord of Hosts and despised the word of the Holy One of
and despised the word of the Holy One of
and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel therefore the anger of the Lord
Israel therefore the anger of the Lord
Israel therefore the anger of the Lord is aroused against his people he has
is aroused against his people he has
is aroused against his people he has stretched out his hand against them and
stretched out his hand against them and
stretched out his hand against them and stricken them and the hills trembled
stricken them and the hills trembled
stricken them and the hills trembled their carcasses were as refuse in the
their carcasses were as refuse in the
their carcasses were as refuse in the midst of the streets for all this his
midst of the streets for all this his
midst of the streets for all this his anger is not turned away but his hand is
anger is not turned away but his hand is
anger is not turned away but his hand is stretched out still he will lift up a
stretched out still he will lift up a
stretched out still he will lift up a banner to the nation's from afar and
banner to the nation's from afar and
banner to the nation's from afar and will whistle to them from the end of the
will whistle to them from the end of the
will whistle to them from the end of the earth surely they shall come with speed
earth surely they shall come with speed
earth surely they shall come with speed swiftly no one will be weary or stumble
swiftly no one will be weary or stumble
swiftly no one will be weary or stumble among them no one will slumber or sleep
among them no one will slumber or sleep
among them no one will slumber or sleep nor will the belt on their loins be
nor will the belt on their loins be
nor will the belt on their loins be loosed nor the strap of their sandals be
loosed nor the strap of their sandals be
loosed nor the strap of their sandals be bro
bro
bro whose arrows are sharp and all their
whose arrows are sharp and all their
whose arrows are sharp and all their bows bent their horses hooves will seem
bows bent their horses hooves will seem
bows bent their horses hooves will seem like flint and their wheels like a
like flint and their wheels like a
like flint and their wheels like a whirlwind there roaring will be like a
whirlwind there roaring will be like a
whirlwind there roaring will be like a lion
lion
lion they will roar like young lions yes they
they will roar like young lions yes they
they will roar like young lions yes they will roar and lay hold of the prey they
will roar and lay hold of the prey they
will roar and lay hold of the prey they will carry it away safely and no one
will carry it away safely and no one
will carry it away safely and no one will deliver in that day they will roar
will deliver in that day they will roar
will deliver in that day they will roar against them like the roaring of the sea
against them like the roaring of the sea
against them like the roaring of the sea and if one looks to the land behold
and if one looks to the land behold
and if one looks to the land behold darkness and sorrow and the light is
darkness and sorrow and the light is
darkness and sorrow and the light is darkened by the clouds